You are responsible for the newly formed talent analytics group in HR at a major technology firm. The head of HR is concerned that the company will lose critical talent in the upcoming organizational change initiative. She believes that women scientists are underrepresented in your firm, and she cites data from ZippiaLinks to an external site. to make her case.  She is especially concerned that younger women (ages 25-40) who are research scientists with graduate degrees will leave, which would adversely impact the development of women as the next generation of R&D leaders.

Details
Please use this data set Download data setto answer the following questions.  Craft your answers as memos communicating your insights to the heads of Research, Development, Sales, Marketing and HR, and make your answers easy to understand for non-technical leaders.  Use this resourceLinks to an external site. as a guide for your memos.   Do not include programming code or data tables.  Use charts sparingly and only if they make your answers easier to understand.

Using the data provided, explain whether the two assertions of the head of HR as described in the problem statement are correct. Explain the rationale for your choice of the frame of reference for the representation of women in R&D. (20 points)
Describe at least three variables in the dataset that are common across employees in Research, Development, Marketing and Sales who are at a disproportionate risk for leaving. The work can be conducted in Excel, but you are free to use any tool that you wish. There is no need to explain what approach you used.  If the variables that you identify appear to be related in any way, summarize the theme(s) that you see in these variables so you can communicate your findings to the head of HR. (20 points)
The Chief Analytics Officer for the company wants to demonstrate the value of talent analytics to the executive committee, and has proposed to use the HR department as the case study. You disagree with this recommendation.  Why do you think that the HR group is not a good choice? (10 points)
Which department would you support to prove the value that you can generate? Develop the strategic rationale that will convince the Chief Analytics Officer and the executive committee, which includes the heads of Research, Development, Sales, Marketing and HR, of your choice of the division to support. (10 points)
Develop three recommendations for the leader of the division that you are supporting to address the attrition risk factors that you identified in question 2.  Remember that interventions like salary, promotions, and stock options are commonly set at the enterprise level, not the division level.  What is the top recommendation that you would make to the head of the division that you chose to support? Explain the rationale for the top  recommendation that you chose. (20 points)
Design a rapid test and control experiment (review what you learned in Research Design) for your top recommendation to determine whether your hypothesis is correct and you can successfully mitigate attrition.  Specify the independent variable(s) that you will manipulate, and the dependent variable that you will measure.  What information beyond employee survey data would you want to track? How would you collect and report the data to measure the impact of your experiment?  (20 points)
